testing one two three testing testing testing
testing one two three testing this is july the
sixth and out at still waters the home of ken and
anne pierce to chat about his student days uh
Begin, please, Ken, introduce yourself to
anybody that might hear this tape or read a
transcription. Give a biographical summary
before you got to A&M. Where'd you grow up? What did
mom and dad do? Where'd you go to high school?
Anything else you did of any importance before
coming to A&M?
Well, I was born in Snyder, Texas, and began
elementary school in Hobbs, New Mexico, and moved
to Brownwood, Texas, and lived there until my
ninth grade, middle of my ninth grade year, and we
moved to a farm in Fisher County, north of Robie,
between Robie and Rotan. And I stayed there until I
graduated from high school and came to A&M around
the first of June, 1951. Mom and dad, what was your
dad's profession? My dad ran a restaurant or ran
cafes or restaurants, and he was a cook.
But did you all end up farming? Yes. During the time
that we lived in Fisher County, well, this had been
a dream of his for many years. Going into the
restaurant business was a necessity. Born of the
drought and drought conditions and the
depression years of the early 30s in Scurry
County. And he had, his family lost their farm at
that time. And so this was something that he, a way
for him to have a paycheck, meager paycheck in the
Skurry County. And he always dreamed of going back
to the farm. And then after he got back to the farm,
well, He had two boys that were approaching
college age and he decided, well, the farm income
might not be enough to get them educated. In both
philosophical and real terms, why did you attend
A&M? Why did you go to college? Whose idea was it and
so forth? Well, going to college was something
that my mother had always really hammered at me on.
She went to East Texas State and was
very adamant that her children would go to
college. My dad did not finish high school, but he
valued education from the other vantage of not
having it and being very determined that his boys
would have. And I had become interested in
veterinary medicine. I really liked Texas Tech,
which was the closest big school to us where we
lived on the farm. But after
I really decided that I was going to try to become a
veterinarian while the vet school was at A&M, so
that seemed the most reasonable place to go.
Before you came to enroll, had you visited A&M?
Yes, I'd been here two
or three years in the spring for FFA events. I was
involved in judging teams in high school, and I
was fortunate enough to be on judging teams at the
state level in state competition a couple of those
years. What impression had A&M made on you, those
visits?
Well, it seemed like a very friendly place. We
stayed in the dorm,
having contacts with a couple of boys from Fisher
County. And they would make arrangements for us to
stay near them. And of course, there seemed to be a
lot good activities going on among the students
all the time, and it was really a big place to me.
Those
were the main things, I guess, that I remember.
We're not trying to put Tech down or build it up, but
as far as you knew, how did those two compare in
reputation and so forth? You mentioned Tech
before. Well,
my impression was that A&M was kind of a different
tier. I would have thought of McMurray College and
Hardin-Simmons as being one level, and then Texas
Tech would be another level, and then A&M would be
one of the big schools. It really wasn't that big a
school at that time. When you came to enroll, how
did you get here? Who'd you come with? What did you
bring? Describe that whole trip. I graduated,
well, first let me say that I came for summer school
in 1951. This was either the only year are one of two
consecutive years that an experiment was run at
A&M to have CORE for credit for freshmen in the
summer. And it's kind of an, I guess, an
exploration of whether this would be a way to
accelerate, possibly accelerate a program for
students at A&M since it was an all military school
and it did, a person really couldn't gain and
accelerate just by going to summer school because
you couldn't get the ROTC off.
So I graduated from high school and I believe it was
about eight days later Well, my dad and another
father, Mr. Herman, brought two boys down here.
And
they're the Herman Buick. So they had a big
roadmaster that we rode down in in style. What did
you bring, as far as you can recall? What stuff?
Well, I knew that the uniforms would be provided,
and
we did, each of us had a footlocker. We'd gotten
that information, and Mr. Herman was in the
clothing business in Winters, Texas, and
we, so he had ordered a good footlocker for each one
of us that would have the proper dimensions and
everything. And he had gotten some khaki, a couple
of khaki shirts for each of us. We each had a couple
of khaki shirts and some khakis and just
sheets and towels and things. Anyway, it was all in
that footlocker. whatever I took was just
clothing items. And I don't remember bringing
anything else. No radio? No. And no record player
of any sort? No. And when you got here, how did you
find your dormitory, your outfit, and that sort of
thing? How did you get placed? Well...
we stopped at the Aggieland Inn and there was a sign
there pointing in it was a handmade sort of a sign to
check where people were to check in and to get their
directions and the freshmen that year that summer
for summer school the freshmen were to live in the
dorms
fourteen and uh... fifteen i
may be a little it's either fourteen i know it was
fourteen because that was the air force dorm and i
lived in fourteen and it was either fifteen or
seventeen that was the uh... the uh... army dorm
army corps dorm and uh... so there were four dorms
over there and at that time there was also another,
well there was Walton Hall and another small
building that really wasn't a dorm i don't think
but it was used to house some of the upperclassmen
but uh all right so y'all did you spent the night in
uh aggie land or did you just drive in and go we we
just it was being used at that time it As far as I
know, it was full of the
student activities and those type of things. It
was all offices as far as I could see at that time.
But we got our instructions on where to go, and so
our parents helped us move in. Our dads helped us
get our things in. And I think Wilford had Herman,
the boy, had a fan to real force that to bring it down
because We really needed it. Do you remember what
floor y'all were on? The first place, the very
first room we had was on the first floor. Oh, so that
was a warmer. Yeah, and it was on the north side so it
would have been away from no breeze at all. And we
got in and these two really nice upperclassmen
stopped by and introduced themselves to our dads
and just all smiles and, you know, boy, we were just
thinking, what a nice place. Boy, these are a
couple of real nice upperclassmen going to help us
out, you know, and everything. So then our dads
left after just a little while. Do you remember
anything your dad said to you during those last few
hours that stuck in your heart, your mind?
No, I really don't. How much money did you have in
your pocket, reckon?
I don't remember that. Maybe 20, I just don't
remember. It wasn't very much money, though. And
do you have any idea what a semester or a year cost?
No, I don't. But, of course, tuition was $25 a
semester. And you're not one of these whose father
gave him so many acres to farm for four years, and
whatever he produced, that would be his college?
No. Okay. Eddie Joe Davis, that happened to him up
in Jacksboro. For four years, that was what he was
to do. All right, so the father's left. Yeah. And we
had been sort of straightening things out, you
know, and decided it was already hot, being one of
the first few days in June. So we kind of decided
we'd lie down on the mattress before we made it up or
anything. And we were lying there, and these same
two nice upperclassmen came in. And boy, it hit the
fan in a hurry then. So our education began at that
point, I'd say. And what kind of orientation
activities did those upperclassmen inflict? I
remember that we were lying there and just kind of
casually said, hi guys, or something like that, to
that effect. And boy, one of them just bellowed
out, you know, freshman, on your feet. And... hit a
brace, and of course I didn't know what a brace was
or anything, so they had to start from scratch.
Then you go to, you eat at Duncan? No, Sabisa.
Sabisa, and did y'all, as far as you recall, did you
fall in to march to the first meal? Yeah, in a manner
of speaking, and I've been trying to remember,
think back on the sequence of this as to when the
upperclassmen came in. But as best I remember, we
had, I think we came in on one day, which meant then
we marched to Chow that evening and the next
morning. And that night, the first night, we were
in the hall most of the evening. learning what we
weren't to do and what we were to do.
And after breakfast the next morning, well, we got
our uniforms, walked over. We were marched over.
And this
was just east of Sabeasa. behind Milner Hall in
that area that is now the cooling tower, right on
that same area where the cooling tower is as I
remember it. Of your uniforms, about what portion
of your uniforms were new and what part were used,
had turned by somebody else that had been turned
in? I think Everything was used, I think. And so
from then on, you're in full uniform. Yeah. And
learning how to shine brass and shine and polish
our shoes to everyone's satisfaction. Of course,
we had a little bit of time. uh... in the middle or
early after lunch we were instructed to if we
didn't have our shoe polish and brasso and things
like that there were stores at north gate that we
could go get same and so we did some of that anyway
how long before paddle was in use well
We did not have a paddle that summer. It was in the
fall that I had my first experience with it. There
was a lot of
monitoring, I guess, since this was a new program.
And what courses did you take? Do you remember? I
took chemistry. in organic chemistry, English.
That's already a tough load.
You had had chemistry in high school? Yeah, those
were the two courses. You'd had chemistry in high
school? No. Oh, you had not? No. What was it like
then? really, really scary. And this was my first
experience, and I'm not saying this to sound
bragging or anything, but especially when I was
going to school at Robie, I just didn't study. It
wasn't necessary. And I made, you know, Pretty
good grades, good grades. But of course I came to
A&M on probation because that was a little school
that I didn't take enough acceptable courses for
full admission to A&M. And yet here I was
confronted with something and it was, for the
first couple weeks, it was just an out of control
situation. I'd never experienced that before. Do
you remember who the chemistry teacher was? Oh,
yeah. Well, I can't remember his name. Wasn't one
of the legendary, John Beckham or somebody like
that? No. This was a man who
died during our freshman year. He was killed in a
boating accident, as I remember. Seemed like he
was involved. He was doing research with the
oceanography group. You were here all summer?
Yeah. About how many students were? Well, there
were two Air Force squadrons in dorm 14, and there
were two companies, infantry companies. Well,
one infantry and one artillery, I believe. As you
remember them? Of course, there were many, many,
many, sophomores and other upperclassmen, but
especially sophomores. See, at that particular
time, there were two types of people that went to
summer school at A&M. There were students who
flunked a course or one or more courses and had to
make up the slack.
Or they were graduate students who were here a lot
of you know right graduate students teachers and
that type of people and they were living in a remote
location to us they were just in another world as
far as i knew at that time
but there were so many sophomores as as you recall
describe the routine of a day what time did y'all
get up what did you do how long were classes
Did you have Reveille and fallout and all that?
Yeah, we fell out. I can't remember. I think we fell
out at 7. No, it wasn't because we started classes.
We had 7 o'clock classes. So we fell out at 6.
Because that beat the heat to have the 7 o'clock
class. And we really needed it because there were
no air-conditioned classes. that time. And the
classes lasted about how long? I think they lasted
an hour and a half hour and 15 minutes for an hour and
a half. Then you had chemistry lab every day? No
I think it was three days two
three days a week and then one afternoon was ROTC
was drill
And we had a PE class
and
ROTC. Those were the things, the classes that we
attended. And these two Air Force companies, were
most of them fish? Yeah. All of the people, all of
the members of each of the squadrons and companies
were freshmen. except for a CO and an executive
officer, two seniors and two juniors. Yeah, so you
all didn't have the task that you would have in the
fall of cleaning up an upperclassman's room every
morning. You didn't have to do that. No. But in the
dining hall, did you all have the same kind of
routine that summer that would be in the fall?
Yeah, uh-huh. And
we were exposed to various things, items of
foolishness associated with the dining hall.
There was one of the juniors who convened an order
of the green dragon i guess and he'd do all sorts of
foolish things i mean it was it was just a shirt
something to to uh make the freshmen do foolish
things such as uh oh you'd have to he would uh when he
would convene this and it it didn't involve the
same people but uh when he would convene the Order
of the Green Dragon, he'd borrow one of the
waiter's trays, and he would just come up to a table
with the freshmen still there, and at the freshmen
table, you know, there are 10 tables would seat 10
people, and so we would have all eight freshmen,
typically there'd be eight freshmen on the table.
And then if there were upperclassmen sitting,
well, there'd be at least one upperclassman at one
end or the other. And often there'd be two
upperclassmen, one at each end. But we thought it
was pretty bad, all the things we had to go through
it that summer. But really, it wasn't that bad
because we didn't have sophomores in the picture.
sitting with us because we did see the the
upperclassmen they were going to summer school
ate some in another part of Sabisa
but this guy is our I can't remember his name for
sure I can see his face but he would come in he would
come to your table and he would bong so many times on
the on the metal tray the big aluminum tray and
convene the Order of the Green Dragon and he would
point to this one or that one and to go over and he'd
give you a table to go sing something, you know.
So nothing bad? No, it was the main thing was just I
guess he enjoyed seeing how people would how you
know a function under in the embarrassed so you're
in chemistry and english class just about all
morning then lab or rotc most of the afternoon then
at night were you back in your room studying and so
how did uh how did the summer go in terms of uh
academically for you well you mean the grades yeah
you did okay i did all right but i started i went into
the hole in chemistry pretty to begin with but then
i i had a couple of of uh freshmen around me who had
had found chemistry to be easy in high school and
they hardly studied made a point of it in fact one of
them jimmy smith i remember him quite well because
we were of buddied up and he he really helped me out
with chemistry but he kind of made a show of the fact
that he he knew this chemistry no problem and he
would he didn't study much well we both made bees I
made B the first semester, the first six weeks to
take. So you pulled out of that hole quickly. Well,
we just finished the one semester of the first
semester. Isn't that the way? No, I guess we took
both semesters.
I should have thought about that a little bit. And
compared to high school, the English course, was
it a demanding course? Yeah, English was
something that I made light of, I guess, in high
school. And so
I made B's in 103 and 104 here,
but it was a struggle. Right, then... Mainly
because of time. You know, in writing a theme, you
had about enough time for one shot at it. Not much
polished time or anything else. And what did
you... Fred Eckfeldt was my English teacher, and
that was really a blessing. I didn't realize it at
the time. Describe him as a teacher. Uh... Very
proper. Of course, you know him, not a tall man, but
very stately in his carriage and demeanor. He was
not,
well.
What made him a good teacher?
I think his thoroughness in the fact that he
wouldn't he wouldn't allow you to
I just remember being him holding me holding me and
then seeing him hold others to kind of their feet to
the fire to give a give a reasonable answer he
wouldn't just accept a whip or something like that
And yet he didn't do this in a way that you felt put
upon or, I mean, he left you with your dignity,
totally.
But he was a good role model to me in that
he conveyed, imparted to me the fact that he
considered the business of writing and of
composition to be important. And you're working
hard during these weeks and you're, did you go home
in midsummer or just stayed here? I had two trips
that I can remember. in the summer, and those were
weekend trips. I went home with, went to Baytown to
the home of a twin, a couple of boys that were here
that I had made friends with, the Banta brothers.